TECH TYPES
This text file will explain what technique "types" are in the bot.


Here's a quick list of the current tech types: SINGLE, AOE, SUICIDE, SUICIDE-AOE, STATUS, HEAL, STEALPOWER

All of these types can also be classified as a MAGIC subtype and have an element attached to them (magic or not).

Valid elements are: none, earth, lightning, wind, fire, light, dark, water or ice. 


Now we'll go into detail about each of them.



* SINGLE
This is actually the default tech type.  When you don't want the tech to be anything special, just a single target-hitting tech, set the type to this.

* AOE
This tech type will cause damage to all targets on the battlefield.

* HEAL
This tech type will heal a target, unless a target is marked as an "undead" type or is currently inflicted with the zombie status in which case it'll cause damage.  Note you can cast this spell on anyone or anything, including monsters.

* SUICIDE
This tech type will consume a user's remainig HP to do damage with it. 

* SUICIDE-AOE
This tech type will consume a user's remainig HP to do damage to all targets on the battlefield.

* STATUS
Status type techs inflict a status upon a single target. Currently there are nine valid status types:
Poison, Stop, Blind, Virus, Amnesia, Paralysis, Zombie, Slow and Stun.

To make a status type, you need to set the type as Status and then add a StatusType= line with a valid status type.

For example:

Type=Status
StatusType=Curse

* STEALPOWER
This type of tech will allow a user to steal stats from a target.  The amount varies based on the strength of the tech itself and how many levels the user has into the tech as well as the defense and int of the target.


MAGIC
Magic is a sub type of techniques in this bot.  Any technique can be marked as magic using magic=yes in the technique's ini entry. Magic can also has an element type.  Magic has bonuses depending on a few different things (such as the ClearMind or Elemental Seal skills, or being the right element during the right weather).   


