BATTLE ARENA PLAYER GUIDE
Hello and welcome!  If you're reading this then you're probably interested in the Battle Arena bot. You may have noticed that there is a !help command built into the bot, but I'm writing this thread so that everyone will have an idea of what to do and how to do the various commands that are within the bot explained in better detail.

OVERVIEW (i.e. WHAT IS THIS?)
The bot is an mIRC game in which you join and kill monsters and bosses to gain orbs and new weapons/skills/techniques.  It's similar to DMC, as that's really the inspiration I drew from when I started working on it, but it includes more than just DMC monsters/bosses/weapons/items.   The whole purpose was to make an mIRC game that is completely automated in terms of the battle system. There doesnÅft need to be a DM around to do !next and control monsters, like in my other major mIRC bot ("Kaiou").

Here players join the battle when the bot announces an open battle. After a few minutes, it will generate monsters/bosses and have them join the battle and the battle will start. When itÅfs a monsterÅfs or bossÅf turn, they will automatically do their things. When itÅfs the playerÅfs turn, thereÅfs a few commands you can do (attack with a weapon, attack with a technique, do a skill, use an item). If the player idles for too long the bot will force their turn and skip over them. This is done so that someone canÅft disappear for an hour and cause the battle to drag on forever.

ThereÅfs a bunch of weapons that can be bought and each weapon has a few techniques attached to them. Unlike in Kaiou, you canÅft make your own techniques but rather have to buy them using red orbs that you earn from battle. You buy weapons using black orbs when you obtain via winning boss fights and being alive at the end of one.

ThatÅfs really the gist of what IÅfve been working on thus far.

One more thing to mention here in the "overview" is that the bot is currently unbalanced.  New players will probably find themselves dying a lot while older players will probably dominate almost everything (to a point).   Some weapons are overpowered, others aren't strong enough.  The bot is only on version 1.4 so hopefully things will improve in those areas later on down the road.


STARTING OUT (i.e. how do I join and what do I do first?)
So you've decided to join the bot.  Great!  How do you go about doing that and what are you supposed to do at first?  

First things first, the command to join the game is !new char

When you join you will receive a private message from the bot that looks something like this:

<BattleArena> You enter the arena with a total of #### red orbs to spend.
<BattleArena> Your password has been set to xxxxx and it is recommended you change it using the command !newpass xxxx newpasswordhere in private or at least write the password down. Passwords cannot be recovered!

The amount of red orbs (which is the main currency in this game) will be based on how many other players are in the game and what level they are.  You will receive an average to help newer players not be so far behind the rest of the players.

The password will be randomly generated.  The bot tells you the next command you should do next:   !newpass.  It is recommended you change your password immediately so that you don't forget the randomly generated one.  No one can retrieve your password.

Why do you need a password?  Before you can join in the game you need to ID into the bot.  This is to prevent someone else from playing with your character.  In private with the bot you need to type !id password and you will be logged in if your password is correct.

With that you can finally start using more commands!

Some basic commands you may want to check out:

!hp - Tells you how much health you have left

!tp - Tells you how much technique points you have.

!orbs - Tells you how many black and red orbs you have.

!weapons - This will return a list of all the weapons you own along with the current level of the weapon.  For example:  Fists(1) means you have level 1 fists.

!techs - Will return a list of techniques you know along with the level of the technique.  Example: DoublePunch(1) means you have level 1 DoublePunch.

!items - Will return a list of the items you own and how many of each item you own.  Example: potion(2) means you own 2 potions.

!accessories - Will return a list of any accessories you own and which one you have equipped.

!wear name - Will allow you to equip the accessory.

!remove name - Will allow you to remove an accessory.

!status - Will return the current status of your character.  (like poisoned, stunned, that sort of thing).

!equip weapon - This will allow you to swap weapons on the fly at any time.  Of course you must actually own that weapon to swap to it.

!desc - Will display your character description to the channel.

!cdesc desc - Will let you change your character description to the channel.

!skill desc - Will let you change the description of a skill that you own.  Example: !skill desc MightyStrike puts all his power into this mighty strike!

!setgender male/female/neither  - If you're playing as a different gender than male, set it here.

!view-info tech/item/skill/weapon name - This command will display information on techs, items, skills, and weapons.  Here's an example of the fists weapon:

<BattleArena> [Name fists] [Weapon Type HandToHand] [# of Hits  2]
<BattleArena> [Base Power 1] [Cost 0 black orb(s)] [Element of Weapon none]
<BattleArena> [Abilities of the Weapon DoublePunch, ShoulderTackle, SpinningAttack, AsuranFists]
<BattleArena> [Weapon Description It's your fists. They are not detachable..]

!battle stats - This command will tell you how many battles have been fought, wins/losses and the current winning/losing streak.

!style - This command tells you which style you have equipped, which styles you own, and how much XP you have into the current style.

!style change name - This command will change your style.

!stats - Tells you your stats.

Here's a quick explanation of the stats:

HP: health.  When this hits 0 you're out of the battle.

TP: technique points, basically MP in other games.  To perform a technique you need TP.

Strength: How strong you are. Melee attacks use this.

Defense: How much damage you'll block.  Defense is used for all types of attacks.

Intelligence: How much damage your techniques will do, plus how well you can block other techniques (this will be added with defense on defending).

Speed: How fast you are.  This affects when you get your turn in battle.


THE SHOP
The next thing you should do is go familiarize yourself with the shop.  You'll be using this shop a lot as it's the way to gain new weapons, new techniques, new items, and to upgrade your stats.

First things first, use this command: !shop

The bot will message you with something like this:

<BattleArena> ::[Welcome to the Shop]::
<BattleArena> The shop is where you can exchange orbs for upgrades, new items and techniques. But be forewarned, every time you purchase something your "shop level" will increase and raise the price of everything except items and new weapons.
<BattleArena> Commands: !shop list <items/techs/skills/stats/weapons/styles/orbs> and !shop buy <items/techs/skills/stats/weapons/styles/orbs> <what to buy> (Remember to remove the < > from the command when using it)
<BattleArena> Your current shop level is ###


The "shop level" is basically the current level of the player.  Every time you purchase something that isn't a new weapon or an item, your "shop level" will increase.  Shop level affects the price of everything except those two things that I mentioned.  In other words, you need to plan out your character carefully or you will find yourself out of red orbs or the price of something you really want being slightly more than you can afford.

Next up you can try out the list command for the various things.

!shop list items
!shop list techs
!shop list skills
!shop list stats
!shop list weapons
!shop list styles
!shop list orbs

Throughout all this you'll notice something like   name(number).  The (number) is the amount of red orbs you need to purchase it.  Also take note that new weapons are listed in BLACK ORB prices.  Black Orbs are special orbs you get for surviving a successful boss battle and cannot be obtained any other way.

So let's say you want to upgrade your HP (at least one or two upgrades in HP is recommended).  You can do it like this:

!shop buy stats hp

The bot will automatically take care of the transation and send you a message like this:

<BattleArena> You spend ### red orbs for +50 to your hp!
<BattleArena> Your Shop Level has been increased to #.#

As you can see, you've gained 50 HP but your shop level has increased by .1.   The next time you go to make the same purchase you will find that it costs a little more red orbs.

** Note: You cannot use the shop while in battle.  If a battle is going on and you're NOT in it, you can still use the shop as normal.

Another thing to note: the !shop list techs only shows you the techniques that are available for the current weapon you have equipped.  So if you have your fists equipped you won't see the technique list for Rebellion, for example.  In order to see the other techniques and their prices you have to equip that weapon (or you can use !view-info to look at the weapon and get a list of techniques for that weapon).

If you're looking at all the lists and your eyes are glazing over because you have no idea what all of it does or means, don't worry too much about it.  I'll explain all of the skills later on and you can always use !view-info to learn more information on anything you don't get. 


BATTLE COMMANDS
Spent your red and black orbs on things and are now itching to try out your abilities and gain more orbs?  Battle is the only way you can do it, so let's talk about that.

I'm sure you've already seen this, but periodically the bot will be spitting messages out in channel that look like this:

<BattleArena> * A battle will begin in 3 minutes.
<BattleArena> A dimensional portal has been detected. The enemy force will arrive in 2 minutes. type !enter if you wish to join the battle!

That means a battle is about to begin.  If you want to take part in the battle use the !enter command and you will be entered.  As long as 1 player joins the battle the battle will happen.  If no players join the bot will say this message:

<BattleArena> There were no players to meet the monsters on the battlefield! The battle is over.


When the two minutes up the bot will calculate how many players have joined and pick a random type of battle.  There's four types currently:

Orb Fountain Battle (10% chance of happening)
This battle is simply to let players gain orbs.  An Orb_Fountain monster will join.  The fountain can't fight back, so feel free to wail on it.

Boss Battle (10% chance of happening)
1 boss will be picked from a list of bosses and it will join the battle.  Players have to work together to defeat this terrible foe.  If the boss is defeated, at the end of battle everyone who's still alive will receive a black orb and the person who's the most stylish will receive an item (usually; but more on style later).

Doppelganger Battle (10% chance of replacing a normal boss battle)
Evil doppelgangers of all participating players will be generated and the heroes will be forced to fight themselves.

Warmachine Battle (20% chance of replacing a normal boss battle)
The monsters will build a large tank-like boss that will roll out onto the battlefield for the players to fight.

Monster Battle (80% chance of happening)
As expected, this is the most common type of battle.  The bot will generate a number of monsters (the number depends on how many players join the battle) and will add them to battle.  The object is to defeat them all.

At the end of all three types of battle you will receive red orbs (lose/win/dead/alive).  The amount of red orbs will vary, but to get more you have to defeat monsters and be stylish about it.

When the battle begins you will see something like this:

<BattleArena> The weather changes. It is now windy
<BattleArena> Enchanted Bones has entered the battle!
<BattleArena> Enchanted Bones is a skeleton carrying a large scythe
<BattleArena> -=BATTLE LIST=-
<BattleArena> Enchanted_Bones, Iyouboushi


The bot will randomly change the weather (which affects magic) and the monster(s) will join the battle, then the battle will commence.   The Battle List tells you the list of everyone that's in battle.  Take note of how the monsters' names are spelled and listed (i.e. if it has an underscore or not) as you'll need this to attack the monster.

When it's a monsters' turn, the AI of the bot will automatically control the monster and let it attack or use a technique.

[13:41] <BattleArena> Enchanted Bones leaps at Iyouboushi and slashes several times before rolling to the side before Iyouboushi can react.
[13:41] <BattleArena> The attack did 37 damage

When it's your turn you have a few options.  Here's the commands:

/me attacks monster
This command will allow you to perform a melee attack using your weapon.  Some things to note here: some weapons have elemental properties that might affect damage (some monsters are weak to certain elements) and some weapons are multi-hit and may do more than 1 hit per attack.  All single-hit weapons have a small chance of performing a double hit in battle.

/me uses his/her/its technique on monster
For example:  /me uses his DoublePunch on monster.  
This command will perform a technique on a monster assuming you ( A ) know the technique ( B ) have enough TP to perform the technique.  As with weapons, some techniques have elemental properties that might affect damage.  There's also a lot of different kinds of technique types in this bot.  Included are status (like inflicting a target with poison), AOE (area of effect, hits all opposing targets on the battlefield), magic (affected by the weather and elemental strengths/weaknesses), and suicide (kills the user).

/me goes boost
If your weapon has a "boost" technique and you have skill in it, you can use the boot to increase your stats 1 time per battle by using the /me goes command.  For example, Zangetsu has the "bankai" technique which is a boost.  Once you learn the technique you can use  /me goes bankai  when you have Zangetsu equipped to perform the boost.  Note that boosts aren't very strong in this bot (as opposed to my previous bot where boosts were overpowered) but will become stronger once you level the ability up more, and that you can only boost 1 time per battle.  You do not need to keep the weapon on to keep the boost (so you can swap to Zangetsu, use Bankai, then swap back to any other weapon you own).

!use item on target
If you have any items and wish to use them, this is how you do it.  For example, you can use a potion to restore some of your (or an allies') HP.  To do that you would use !use potion on yournamehere/targetnamehere.   Some items cannot be used on yourself (battle items) and some items can't be normally used on monsters (healing items can only be used on monsters if the monster is a zombie).

/me taunts monster
This will cause your character to taunt the monster.  Your character will gain +1 str and a bunch of style points for taunting, while there's a few different things that can happen to the monster.  The monster may either gain str or int, or may actually lose a little str and int.

Or you can use a skill.

There's a bunch of different skills in this bot and they all have their own commands.  Here's a few to give you an idea: !bloodboost, !sugitekai, !mightystrike.

I'll go into skills later on.

Now you can go out there and battle the forces of darkness.

At the end, win or lose, you will receive some red orbs for your efforts.  Here's an example of victory:

[13:46] <BattleArena> The Battle is Over!
[13:46] <BattleArena> The forces of good have won this battle!
[13:46] <BattleArena> Players have been rewarded with 1245 red orbs for their victory!


Here's a small note about monsters in this bot:
The current winning/losing streak will either enhance or nerf monsters' strengths.  If players have been winning a lot of battles then monsters will progressively get stronger and stronger.  If the players have lost a lot in a row, the bot will try to decrease the strength of monsters to give players a bigger chance of winning.  Monsters will also be strengthened by how many players are in the battle (a monster fighting 5 players will be stronger than the same monster fighting 1 player).


SKILLS
** As of October 28, 2012.

There are three types of skills in this bot: Passive Skills that are always on, Active Skills that have commands, and Resists that help you resist against various status types found in the bot.  Each skill has a maximum level that you can obtain in it. Some active skills can only be used once every certain number of minutes.  Of course you must first purchase the skills in the shop before you can use them.


Passive Skills
As mentioned, these skills are always on.

Swordmaster
This skill will increase damage done with sword and katana type weapons.  Increased levels in this skill will increase the damage.

Gunslinger
This skill will increase damage done with gun type weapons.  Increased levels in this skill will increase the damage.

Wizardy
This skill will increase damage done with stave and wand type weapons.  Increased levels in this skill will increase the damage.

MartialArts
This skill will increase damage done with hand to hand type weapons (such as Fists and the weapon Cerberus).  Increased levels in this skill will increase the damage.

Polemaster
This skill will increase damage done with spear type weapons.  Increased levels in this skill will increase the damage.

ClearMind
This skill will increase magical damage.  Increased levels of this skill will increase the damage.

DesperateBlows
This skill will enhance melee damage based on how much health you have left. At 10-25% health your attack will be 1.5x stronger, at 2-10% your attack will be 2x and at 2% or less health your attack will be 2.5x.

OrbHunter
This skill will allow you to obtain extra orbs at the end of battle.  The amount of orbs you get will be 5 * skill level.  Note that the bot won't tell you that you got extra orbs.

FieldMedic
This skill will increase the amount of health items will heal by 5*skill level.

Impetus
This skill will increase your chances of performing a critical hit by 1% each level in this skill.

BloodPact
This skill will allow you to activate summoning items and summon pets/summons to the field to fight for you.

Zen
This skill will increase the amount of TP you regain each turn by 5*skill level.

Haggling
This skill will increase the amount of orbs you can sell items back for by 20 * skill level.

WeaponBash
This skill will add a chance of inflicting the stun status after each melee hit. Note, if the target is immune to stun it will never take effect.  The chance is (skill level * 10)%.

Vogue
This skill will increase the amount of style XP you get at the end of battle.

Alchemy
This skill will allow you to use gems to create items. Each level of this skill will raise the success rate of creating an item by 1%.  Use !view-info alchemy list  to get a list of items you can craft and !view-info alchemy (item)  to view the ingredients necessary.


Active Skills
These are the skills that have commands that you need to do during battle to activate the skill.

Speed - !speed
This skill increases the user's speed when performed.  Increased levels increases the amount of speed when used.

Elemental Seal - !ElementalSeal
This skill enhances your next magical spell. The default reuse time is 10 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

Mighty Strike - !MightyStrike
This skill enhances your next attack done with a weapon. The default reuse time is 10 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

Mana Wall - !ManaWall
This skill reduces the next magic attack used against you to 0.  The default reuse time is 10 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

Royal Guard - !RoyalGuard
This skill reduces the next physical attack used against you to 0.  The default reuse time is 10 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

*****  Neither Royal Guard nor Mana Wall will block normal non-magic techniques.  So if you use either one and still take damage, the monster used a tech.

Fullbring - !fullbring item on target
This skill allows you to draw out the souls within items and turn single-target items into AOEs.  Fullbring will consume the item you use.  (For example, if you use this skill on a potion, it will heal all allies on the battlefield).  All items have a fullbring level and you will need to match the skill level of the item level in order to use the skill on that item.

Sugitekai - !sugitekai
This skill allows you to get two turns on your next turn after using this skill.  The default reuse time is 15 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

Meditate - !meditate
This skill will give you (level * 5) TP back to you instantly.  The reuse time is 5 minutes.

Conserve TP - !conserveTP
This skill will reduce the cost of your next technique to 0 TP. The default reuse time is 20 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

Blood Boost - !BloodBoost
This skill will consume 100 HP to give you a (level * 2) boost to your STR.  The reuse time is 5 minutes.

Drain Samba - !DrainSamba
This skill will consume 10 TP to activate the "drain" status on the user, allowing him/her to gain HP back with every melee attack.  The amount of turns it will last is the level of your skill.  Note that the drain effect will not work on the undead (vampires, skeletons, zombies).  There is a 3 minute reuse period inbetween command uses.

Regen - !Regen
This skill will give you the HP regeneration effect.  Every turn you will regenerate (skill level * 2) HP back.  The effect will wear off when you reach your maximum HP or if you die.  There is a 3 minute reuse period inbetween command uses.

Kikouheni - !kikouheni weathertype
This skill allows the user to change the current weather.  The default reuse time is 10 minutes.  Increased levels of this skill will reduce the amount of time inbetween uses.  Valid weather types are: calm, bright, gloomy, rainy, stormy, snowy, windy, hot, and dry

ShadowCopy - !shadow copy
This skill will create a shadow clone of yourself to fight in battle with you as an NPC.  It can only be used once per battle, even if the clone dies.  The amount of HP the clone has is varient on whether or not you're using the Doppelganger style.

Utsusemi - !utsusemi
This skill will create 2 shadows that will absorb all types of attacks.  The default reuse time is 30 minutes.  Increased levels decreases the amount of time inbetween uses.

Steal - !steal (target name)
This skill will let you try to steal an item or red orbs from a target.  Each level increases the percentage of success by 1%.

Analysis - !analyze (target name)
This skill will allow you to analyze a target. Each level of the skill gives you more detail about the target.

Cover - !cover (target)
This skill allows you to jump in front of an attack and cover an ally of your choosing.

Aggressor - !aggressor
When used, this skill will take (skill level * 10%) of your defense and add it to your strength but will leave your defense at 5.

Defender - !defender
When used, this skill will take (skill level * 10%) of your strength and add it to your defense but will leave your strength at 5.

Holy Aura - !holy aura
When used, this skill will extend the amount of time you have to fight before Darkness sets onto the battlefield by (skill level) minute(s).


Resistance Skills
Like Passive skills, these skills are always on.  All of them do the same thing except with different status effects.  Each level you purchase of a resistance skill lowers the chance that that status effect will take effect on you by 1%.  The maximum is 100, meaning you're completely immune to that status effect**.

The list is:

resist-paralysis
resist-blind
resist-poison
resist-amnesia
resist-curse
resist-zombie
resist-slow
resist-stun
resist-stop

** There is one exception.  Resist-Curse will not protect you when a terrible curse falls upon the battlefield (a rare event).


ITEM LIST
** As of November 1, 2012.

There's a bunch of different types of items in the bot currently:  Healing Items, Battle Items, Consumable (Skill) Items, +Stat Items, Summon Items, Shop Level Reducing Items, Gems, Keys, Accessories, and Misc (Crafting) items.  Here's a list of each.

Healing Items
These are items that are beneficial to the targets.

Potion - 50 Red Orbs
The potion will heal roughly 20 HP when used.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 1 of that skill.

VitalStar - 100 Red Orbs
The VitalStar will heal roughly 60 HP when used.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 1 of that skill.

X-Potion - 250 Red Orbs
The X-potion will heal roughly 150 HP when used. It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 2 of that skill.

Senzu - 500 Red Orbs
The senzu will heal roughly 500 HP when used.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 4 of that skill.

SuperPotion - 3500 Red Orbs
The Super Potion will heal roughly 1500 HP when used. It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 5 of that skill.

DustyWing - 100 Red Orbs
The Dusty Wing will instantly restore 20 TP when used. It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 1 of that skill.

Ether - 500 Red Orbs
The Ether will instantly restore 60 TP when used. It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 2 of that skill.

Tonic - 1000 Red Orbs
The tonic will instantly cure most status effects.  It will not cure Charm or Intimidation though.

GoldOrb - 8000 Red Orbs
This item, when used, will bestow the target with the "revive" status.  If the target dies in the same battle, he/she will be revived with 1/2 hp.


Battle Items
These items can be used on monsters to deal damage or inflict status effects to them.

Holy_Water - 100 Red Orbs
The Holy Water will inflict roughly 45 light elemental damage to a target.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 2 of that skill.

Stop_Watch - 150 Red Orbs
The Stop Watch will attempt to inflict the 'stop' status effect on a target.  It can be used wtih Fullbring and requires level 3 of that skill.

Hour_Glass - 150 Red Orbs
The Hour Glass will attempt to inflict the 'slow' status effect on a target.  It can be used wtih Fullbring and requires level 3 of that skill.

Angon - Crafting Only
This item will attempt to inflict the "Defense Down" status on a target.

Red_Fang - 100 Red Orbs
The Red Fang will inflict roughly 45 fire elemental damage to a target.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 2 of that skill.

Thunder_Orb - 100 Red Orbs
The Thunder Orb will inflict roughly 45 lightning elemental damage to a target.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 2 of that skill.

Fire_Flower - 150 Red Orbs
The Fire Flower will inflict roughly 150 fire elemental damage to a target.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 3 of that skill.

Ice_Coin - 150 Red Orbs
The Ice Coin will inflict roughly 150 ice elemental damage to a target.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 3 of that skill.

Dynamite - Crafting Only
The dynamite will inflict roughly 310 fire damage to a target.  It can be used with Fullbring and requires level 4 of that skill.

HolyHandGrenade - Crafting Only
The Holy Hand Grenade item will inflict roughly 2500 damage to a single target.


+Stat Items
These items, when used, will increase your stats by a certain amount.  You cannot buy these items in the shop and must be found by defeating bosses and being the most stylish.  None of these items can be used with Fullbring.

To keep a little bit of mystery with these items, I'll give a list but won't say what they do.  If you want to know, get out there and defeat the bosses and be stylish about it.

Pizza
PotRoast
Ramen
Cavier
BisonDollar
DragonMeat
SuperMushroom
FireDragonWine
Ambrosia
FoieGras
KnowledgeSource
SoulPainting
FishAndChips
Slurm
CerberusMeat
SilverApple
DefenseSource
PowerSource
Herring


Consumable (Skill) Items
These items are used in conjunction with skills and will be consumed when the skill is used.

Shihei - 100 red orbs
This item is used to create shadows using the Utsusemi skill.  One shihei will produce 2 shadows.

Sokubaku - 100 red orbs
This item is used with the skill Weapon Lock to lock enemies' weapons for a number of turns.


Summon Items
These items only work when the user has the BloodPact passive skill.  The item is consumed upon use but will summon an ally to the battlefield to help fight.

DarkMagicianCard - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon the powerful mage Dark Magician.

BusterBladerCard - 1000 red orbs
This item will summon the warrior Buster Blader.

BlueEyesCard - 1000 red orbs
This item will summon the powerful Blue Eyes White Dragon.

FishOilBroth - 500 red orbs
This item will summon the crab Courier Carrie.

ElvishMedalllian - Cannot Purchase
This item will summon Eldora Adlanna to fight for the heroes.

AlexanderMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Alexander

BahamutMateria - Cannot Purchase
This item is will summon Bahamut

BahamutZeroMateria - Cannot Purchase
This item is will summon Bahamut Zero

CarbuncleMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Carbuncle

SolomonRing - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Doomtrain

LuckyBroth - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Faithful Falcorr

FenrirMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Fenrir

GarudaMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Garuda

IfritMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Ifrit

LeviathanMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Leviathan

RamuhMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Ramuh

ShivaMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Shiva

TitanMateria - 1000 red orbs
This item is will summon Titan


Shop Reducing Items
When used, these items will reduce your current shop level by an amount.  The shop level can never go below 1.0.

DiscountCard - 250,000 Red Orbs
This item will reduce your shop level by 10 points.

UltraDiscountCard - 500,000 Red Orbs
This item will reduce your shop level by 25 points.


Gems
Gems are used to craft items. They can be obtained via treasure chest or by killing a monster via the JewelSword weapon.

Zircon
Topaz
Emerald
Ruby
Sapphire
Opal
Onyx
Diamond


Keys
Keys are obtained at the end of battle after enough wins have been accumulated.  They open their respective colored-chests.

BlueKey
BrownKey
RedKey
OrangeKey
GreenKey
GoldKey


Accessories
Accessories are special items that you can wear to bestow various bonus effects to your character.  Here's a list of current accessories.

Wizard's-Amulet
Blessed-Ankh
Blood-Ring
Purple-Belt
Brown-Belt
Black-Belt
Miser-Ring
Thief-Ring
Fool's-Tablet
Ribbon
Aztec-Goldcoin
Lucky-Rabbit'sFoot
VIP-MemberCard
Spear-Pin
Mugger's-Belt
Prism-Specs


Misc (Crafting) Items
These items are used with the alchemy skill to craft items.

Ink
Paper
AshLog
Hatchet
IronOre
BrokenLance
SilverChain
FireGem
IceStone
WindRock
WaterJewel
EarthSphere


ACCESSORIES
Accessories are special items that can be equipped.  The accessories themselves will grant bonuses or status effects on the wearer.  How do you get the accessories?  Well, they're rare boss drops from certain bosses.  Once you manage to find one, you can equip it with !wear <accessory name>  If you ever decide that you no longer want to wear that accessory you can remove it with !remove <accessory name>. 


TREASURE CHESTS
Treasure Chests appear at the end of victories after a certain number of wins have happened in a row (currently 25 wins).  At the end of battle a random colored chest will appear. Anyone who has the right colored key can open the chest but they have to act fast! Chests will disappear after 45 seconds of being unopened. Each color contains its own item pool but combined, chests can contain every item in the game (including rare accessories and shop discount items).


STYLE POINTS
In the game Devil May Cry, the hero Dante must not only defeat the forces of evil but must do it with style.  The higher the style in the game, the more red orbs you would collect from their defeat.  I've decided to try and make my own little version of that in the bot.

Every time you do an attack of some kind it will add style points.  When you get hit, you will lose style points.  Repeating the same action and action over and over will reduce the amount of style points you accumulate per attack.  That is to say, you should mix it up a little.  Don't attack with your fists every turn you get.  That's boring.  Instead, use a technique, attack, switch weapons and attack with the new weapon, taunt.  Another way to increase your style points is to kill a monster/boss.  Killing a monster will greatly increase your style points.

If you're asking why you should even bother worrying about style points, it's because when a monster dies the style of the person who kills it will add a bonus to the amount of red orbs you get at the end of battle.  The higher the style, the more of a bonus you'll get at the end.  Also, in boss battles the person who ends up with the highest style points will normally receive a bonus item.

Here's a list of the style rankings in order:

Flat Out Boring!
Dope!
Cool!
Blast!
Alright!
Atomic!
Sweet!
SShowtime!
SSStylish!
SSSSmoking Hot Style!
Jackpot!
Maximum Style


PLAYER STYLES
In Devil May Cry 3 the hero Dante had his choice of a bunch of different styles to pick. Each style would give the player a little variety in moves you could do.  For example, there was the Trickster style that let you dodge things easier and the Swordmaster style that gave you extra combat moves with the various weapons.  Well, I've decided to try and add something similar to this bot.

To view your available styles use the command !style in the channel after you log in.   When you do, you will see something like this:

Iyouboushi is currently using the Trickster style. [XP: 36 / 500]
Iyouboushi knows the following styles: Trickster(1), WeaponMaster(1), Guardian(1)

You can swap styles any time outside of battle by using the command !style change name where name is one of the styles that you know (in this case, Trickster, WeaponMaster or Guardian).

<Iyouboushi> !style change Guardian
<BattleArena> Iyouboushi has switched to the Guardian style!

There are more styles available in the shop for you to purchase using black orbs.  Use !shop list styles to get a list of prices and !shop buy styles name to buy one.

Each style has a level [the (#) next to the name] and can level up by accumulating xp.  You get xp by being in winning battles and by killing monsters/bosses.  The amount of xp you get is pretty low though and the amount of xp you need to level the style up increases the higher the style's level.

So now you're wondering what the various styles are and what they do in-game.  Here's a list.

TRICKSTER
This style will enhance the amount of style points you get for taunting.  Higher levels of Trickster will increase the amount of style points you get.  It'll also give you a bonus to your speed when the bot generates the turn order.  Higher levels of the style will result in a bigger increase in speed, thus giving you a better chance of getting your turn earlier. When equipped with this style there's also a (style level)% chance of dodging attacks. Finally, it will enhance the steal % by a random amount (style level doesn't matter in this case, it's the same random chance each time).

WEAPONMASTER
The Weapon Master will enhance melee attacks of all weapon types.  It does this by increasing the random damage added onto every melee attack and by enhancing the mastery skill slightly.  The amount increases each time the style levels.

GUARDIAN
This style will decrease the amount of damage you take by a percent each level (up to 60% max).

SPELLMASTER
This will enhance magic by roughly 11% per level (up to 90% max).

DOPPELGANGER
This style will enhance your shadow clone ability, giving your clone more health.  The amount of health the clone gets goes up with each level of the style, up to 100%.

HITEN MITSURUGI-RYU
This still will enhance melee and tech damage done with katana weapons and enhance speed at battle turn generation.

QUICKSILVER
This style will allow you to access the !quicksilver command that freezes everyone except you in battle, effectively giving you an extra turn. You can use the !quicksilver command as many times as your style is currently leveled.


MONSTER LIST
** As of December 3, 2012.
Here's a list of monsters that are in the bot.

Air Elemental
Bark Spider
Bigclaw
BloodGoyle
Blue Slime
Bone Soldier
Cactuar
Chimyriad
Creeper
Cursed Bishop
Cursed Pawn
Cursed Queen
Cursed Rook
Cyberman
Dalek
Dark Knight
Dark Octopus
Decapiclops
Devil Manta
Dragoon Ghost
Earth Elemental
Enchanted Bones
Ermit Imp
Female Vampire
Final Guard
Forest Giant
Gekko
GekkoDwarf
Goblin Berserker
Goblin Enchanter
Goblin Shaman
Goblin Smithy
Heal Slime
Heraldic Imp
Ironshell
Mad Piranha
Male Vampire
Mammoth
Maneating Hornet
Metal Slime
Minotaur
Moblin
Nightmare Hornet
Nightmare Vanguard
Ninja Assassin
Orb Fountain
Orcish Grunt
Orcish Gunshooter
Orcish Impaler
Orcish Predator
Orcish Wyrmbrander
Oxocutioner
Poison Slime
Pride Demon
Red Slime
Revenant
Ruby Quadav
Ruly Imp
Sabertooth Tiger
Samurai Ghost
Sandy Claws
Sapphire Quadav
Shrapnel
Sierra Tiger
Snow Giant
Snow Wight
Stone Eater
Succubus
Thunder Elemental
Undead BlackMage
Undead Corsair
Undead Dragoon
Undead Knight
Undead Monk
Undead Ranger
Undead RedMage
Undead Samurai
Volcano Wasp
Water Elemental
Wooden Puppet
Wyvern
Yagudo Oracle
Yagudo Prior
Yagudo Scribe
Yagudo Zealot
Zarklet
Zombie


BOSS LIST
** As of December 3, 2012.
Here's a list of bosses that are in the bot.

Absolute Virtue
a tall humanoid creature. It is blue and white in color and has four wings on its back. One of the strongest monsters in all of Vana'diel and the ruler of Al'Taieu.  From FFXI

Amon
Amon, the Sinistral of Chaos, from the Lufia series.

Android X
a 7'5" tall man with bright neon green hair wearing a Red Ribbon Army ripped jean jacket and dark pants. With an evil grin he holds up his gloved right hand which has a small round cut that reveals a glowing red spot that pulsates. He is the ultimate android created as a failsafe in case Cell failed.  From #DBZRPG

Aris
A minion of Ashi, Aris is a frail old man with a longe white beard and short white hair that is balding.  But don't let his frail apperance fool you, he is a master of black magic.  From #DBZRPG

Ashi
In #DBZRPG, Ashi was the strongest being in the universe who was on a mission to control the ancient power of Atlantis.  He a tall young man with long flowing silver hair. His skin is as pale as the moon, but his eyes are dark and evil.

Ashmaker Gotblut
A larger than normal green orc that uses a large pike.  From Final Fantasy XI

Astarte
A tall Egyptian woman of irresistible beauty. She wears a gold bikini, a golden Pharoah helm and a pink scarf that is attached to her wrists.  From the Castlevania series.

Bahamut Fury
A larger version of Bahamut that is gold in color. His unique wings has three spikes on them that can be fired at his opponents. From Final Fantasy.

Bigmouth Billy
A large worm.  Based on a monster in Final Fantasy XI.

Bloody Bones
A larger than normal skeleton with red bones and carrying a large scythe. From Final Fantasy XI.

Brauner
A former human artist that is now a vampire. He is bald, wears a purple suit with a white design on the interior and wears a gold monocle on his right eye.  From the Castlevania series.

Cell
An ugly green and black bug-looking monster from the series Dragon Ball Z.

Cerberus
A massive three-headed dog that has an affinity for ice.  From Devil May Cry 3.

Chuckie
A doll that is scarred and has a magnum in his hands.  From the Chuckie series of movies.

Cursed King
A large stone chesspiece, the king to be exact.  It has a captured soul of a demon inside it.

Cyberlord
A monster that looks similiar to the other Cybermen, however it has a black faceplate with black handlebars on the head with a transparent window to show its brain. It controls the lesser Cybermen.

Dalek Emperor
It's simliar to the Daleks except has a different suit of armor. The bottom is replaced with a capsule that shows a Dalek's true form and has three giant legs for movement. The suit is far larger and taller than the normal Dalek suit.

Daos
A tall man dressed in regal attire that is red in color and wears a gold crown. He is the Sinistral of Terror and the leader of the other three Sinistrals.  From the Estpolis Denki/Lufia game series.

Death
The right-hand of Dracula.  He wears a thick black cloak and carries a large scythe.  He's from Castlevania

Dracula
The master of Castlevania himself, Dracula is a powerful vampire with very powerful attacks.  From Castlevania (obviously)

Dullahan
A large suit of purple armor that is animated by powerful magic. Perhaps the strongest entity in Golden Sun.

Dune Widow
A gigantic pale white spider with a huge round abdomin.  From Final Fantasy XI.

Eldora Adlanna
A clone of a mighty Elven goddess, mimicing her full power. She wears the usual Swordmaster armor has a sword on the left side of her waist.

Erim
A woman with long blue hair that wears a white dress and carries a sword and shield. She is Erim, the Sinistral of Death. From the Lufia series.

Fafnir
A large brownish grey dragon that gives off an angry roar!

Gades
A man with red hair that wears full body armor and carries a large sword. He is Gades, the Sinistral of Destruction. From the Lufia series.

Metal Gear Ray
A machine that stands at 20 meters in height. It is tan and black in color. It is slightly more organic in design, with large "wings," a long tail and a face where the pilot seat is. Contains various weapons and a powerful water cutter. From the Metal Gear series.

Metal Gear Rex
A very large machine piloted by Liquid Snake. Notabale features are the large "shield" on its left side and a giant railgun on its right side.

Giygas
The final boss of Earthbound and is said to be the ultimate evil.

Gobbles
A seasonal boss that is a giant evil turkey.

Guard Daos
A power being that is a combination of Daos, Gades and Amon. From the Lufia series.

Jester
An insane demon that wears a black and purple oufit, along with a red and blue jester cap. He also has a pure white face, a giant nose, plus red and blue eyes.  From Devil May Cry 3.

Jumbo Cactuar
A far larger verision of a cactuar. It has the same appearence except with a curly mustache drawn on!

Killer Rabbit
A a cute little bunny.  Tim the Enchanter once said that it was a creature so foul, so cruel that no man yet has fought with it and lived. Bones of full fifty men lie strewn about its lair. So, brave knights, if you do doubt your courage or your strength, come no further, for death awaits you all with nasty, big, pointy teeth.  From Monty Python's Search for the Holy Grail

King Slime
A much larger version of the Blue Slimes. It wears a large gold crown on its head. From the Dragon Quest series.

Knights Who Say Ni
A group of knights led by a much taller knight dressed in all black. From Monty Python's Search for the Holy Grail

M Bison
A tall man wearing all red with a blue cape and a large military beret.  He is the leader of the crime syndicate Shadaloo.  From the Street Fighter series

Menos Grande
A huge hollow standing 2-6 stories tall.  It is all black except for its face, which is pure white and has a long pointed nose.  This is a Gillian-class Menos, also known as the Menos Grante.  From the Bleach series.

Metal King Slime
This slime takes the same appearence of the King Slime, but is all metal instead. It wears a large metal crown as well. From the Dragon Quest series.

Pallid Percy
A giant pink and red worm sticking out of the ground and waving back and forth. It's based on a monster in Final Fantasy XI.

Poison
A huge slug-like monster with an old woman's face and several large arms. From DmC.

Poisonhand Gnadgad
A large green orc wearing a light gi and has a headband wrapped around its head. It's based on a monster in Final Fantasy XI.

Puppet Master
A giant wooden head with four spider-like arms. From the Castlevania series.

Quetzalcoatl
The Aztec god of intelligence and self-reflection.  It is a giant feathered serpent and it doesn't look happy.

Ryukotsuki
A large demon that is composed of bones. He has glowing red eyes along with a large red orb around the middle of his chest.

Smothered Schmidt
The ghost of a dead mage who suffocated in a mine. Based on a monster in Final Fantasy XI.

Sea Horror
A gigantic sea kraken that is orange and black in color known around the world as the Horror of the Sea.

Shadow Lord
The warlord that organized the Beastman Confederate into launching an all-out war against the Allied Forces of Altana; he stands an impressive 9 feet tall and carries a broadsword as big as his body.  He wears black armor that is glowing with purple vein-like lines.  From Final Fantasy XI.

Stinging Sophie
A large angry black and yellow bee.  From Final Fantasy XI.

Stubbon Dredvodd
A large green orc dragoon carrying a large pike. It likes to hide and rarely makes itself known to the world. Only has a chance of appearing at 1 specific boss battle. From the Final Fantasy XI series.

Sub Zero
A ninja wearing a blue mask and blue tekko.  From the Mortal Kombat series.

Tiamat
A large and powerful brown dragon.  From Final Fantasy XI.

True Erim
A taller a far more powerful version of Erim. From the Lufia series.

Vergil
Dante's twin brother.  He wears a long blue trenchcoat and carries the Yamato, his favorite weapon.  From the Devil May Cry series.

ZaDha Adamantking
A very large Quadav that towers over at nine feet tall, has white armor and a large staff with four large spikes on it. The Quadav God, Za'Dha Adamantking.  From Final Fantasy XI.

Zark
A grotesque orange alien with two very long tentacles.  He is carrying a weird looking gun.  From #DBZRPG.


NPCS
NPCs are helpful allies that show up occasionally to help the forces of good win battles.  At the moment there's a 10% chance of them showing up normally.  If the players have been losing a lot (5+ in a row) they will show up 100% of the time.  NPCs will stay in battle until they die or until all players die.  In other words, NPCs won't keep fighting the good fight after all players are dead; at least one player must stay alive for the battle to continue.


MISC INFO
This section will talk about any misc stuff that I think players may want to know about.

First off, I'd just like to say.. don't sweat it if you die a lot at the beginning.  At this moment the bot is a bit unbalanced and monsters can be pretty rough towards new characters.  Plus there's a bunch of different types of monsters and some are harder than others (Final Guard, for example, has an extremely high defense and almost everyone will do 1 damage per hit to it).  There's no penalty for dying, so just roll with the punches (as they say).

Second, if battles drag on too long a "rage" system will kick in.  This is a concept that the MMORPG Final Fantasy XI employed on some of its higher level monsters/bosses to ensure that people don't sit and hold monsters for days at a time.  Basically what happens is when a time limit has been hit, the monster will grow to insane power to the point where no players will be able to defeat them.  Because I want battles to be ongoing and often, I've done something similar.  How long do players have to defeat the monsters?  Well, if it's a normal monster battle and the number of monsters is less than 3, players have 15 minutes.  If there's more than 3 monsters, players have 30 minutes.   If it's a boss battle players will get 20 minutes.

After the time elapses, the monsters' stats will be multiplied by 100 making them virtually impossible to kill (and will often one-shot everyone if it uses an AOE).
